### 🛤 05.1 Pathnames

One of the first and most commonly used concepts you’ll encounter in the Linux world is the 'pathname'. The pathname or path is a unique location to a file or directory in a file system of an OS. The path describes the directory or file in the directory structure. When you think of a pathname, envision it as your digital map or compass. Without a proper map, pinpointing a specific area in a vast wilderness can be difficult.

In the Linux filesystem, paths begin from what we call the 'root' directory, represented by a forward slash `/`. Everything on your Linux system, whether files, directories, or even devices, exists within this root directory. You can think of it as the starting point or the 'base' of the Linux filesystem.

Pathnames can be of two types - absolute and relative:

- An **absolute** path is a complete path from the root directory to the file or directory in question. It always starts with `/`. For example, `/home/username/Documents`.
- A **relative** path starts from the current directory and does not start with `/`. It refers to a location relative to where we currently are in the filesystem. For example, if currently in `/home/username`, a relative path to the Documents directory would simply be 'Documents'.

Don't be alarmed if this sounds confusing. Let's illustrate this with some examples.

```bash
# Navigate to the root directory.
cd /

# This command will list all the contents of the root directory
ls
```

The output will display a list of directories inside the root directory. You will see directories like 'home', 'bin', 'etc', among others. Let's go further:

```bash
# Change directory to 'home'.
cd home

# List the contents of 'home'.
ls
```

Here, you're using a relative pathname to move into the 'home' directory and list its contents. If, however, you wished to move directly into the 'home' directory regardless of your current directory, you'd use an absolute pathname, like this:

```bash
# Change directory using an absolute pathname
cd /home

# List the contents of 'home'.
ls
```

In your journey with Linux, learning to navigate using pathnames - your digital compass - is one of the foundational skills you'll master. As you familiarize yourself with the unique conventions and structures of the Linux filesystem, the once intimidating labyrinth transforms into a navigable map.

Remember, the beauty of Linux is its consistency and universality. Once you understand these concepts, you'll be able to traverse any part of the filesystem with ease and confidence. Happy exploring! 🗺🚀
