### 04.7 strace and truss: Trace Signals and System Calls 

In this section, we will acquaint ourselves with two powerful utility tools in Linux for troubleshooting and understanding processes: `strace` and `truss`.

`strace` and `truss` are like your personal private investigators, capable to track every action (system call) a process performs and listing all the signals it receives. These powerful utilities provide valuable information which can assist you in diagnosing issues related to system calls and signals. 🕵️‍♀️

Let's dive in.

#### strace

The `strace` command allows you to see what system calls a process is making in real-time. For instance, you can use strace to view what files a program is accessing and the type of operations it is performing on them. 

Let's look at a simple example: 

```bash 
strace ls
```

This command will output a list of every system call made by the `ls` command, along with their exit status, arguments, and return values.

The output can be a bit overwhelming, but with some familiarity, it can offer valuable insight into how a program is operating.

#### truss

`truss` is similar to `strace` but is more commonly used on Unix systems. Generally, it functions the same way as `strace` but can offer slightly different output depending upon the system. 

Here is an example:

```bash
truss ls
```

This will give you a detailed report of every system call the `ls` command is making.

#### Common Options

- You can use `-o filename` option to send strace or truss report to a file instead of standard output.
  
 ```bash
  strace -o output.txt ls
 ```

- The `-p` option to attach these tools to a running process by providing the process id (PID).

```bash
  strace -p 1234
```

We hope that you find these commands as exciting to use as we find them useful! When dealing with unfamiliar or misbehaving programs, `strace` and `truss` can be lifesavers. They pull back the curtains and allow us to see the inner workings of processes in our system. Happy investigating! 🕵️‍♂️🔍