### 08.7 Scripts for Adding Users: useradd, adduser, and newusers

Meet the power players in command-line user creation: `useradd`, `adduser`, and `newusers`. When it comes to quickly manifesting new users into your Linux system, these three commands form the holy trinity. Documented below are the ways you can make magic with their help. ✨

#### 08.7.1 The `useradd` Command

Let's start with `useradd`. Used without any option, it's a fast-track to creating a new user. It looks something like this:

```bash
# Syntax
sudo useradd [username]

# Example
sudo useradd andrea
```
Running just the `useradd` command creates an entry for the new user in the `/etc/passwd` file. However, it doesn't set a password or create a home directory. 

To add a password, we utilize the `passwd` command:
```bash
# Syntax
sudo passwd [username]

# Example
sudo passwd andrea
```
Remember, you can also set up a home directory during user creation by using the `-m` option with `useradd`:

```bash
# Syntax
sudo useradd -m [username]

# Example
sudo useradd -m andrea
```
You'll find the newly created home directory under `/home/[username]`.

#### 08.7.2 The `adduser` Command

Next up, `adduser`. This command is more interactive and user-friendly, asking for necessary information like the password and the user's full name. When creating a new user using `adduser`, it automatically creates a home directory:

```bash
# Syntax
sudo adduser [username]

# Example
sudo adduser andrea
```

For each prompt, input the required data, and the user will be ready for action. 🚀

#### 08.7.3 The `newusers` Command 

Finally, the `newusers` command takes user creation to another level. It allows you to add multiple new users at once by reading details from a file. The file should be formatted in a specific way, representing fields from the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/shadow` files.

```bash
# Syntax
sudo newusers [filename]

# Example
sudo newusers new_users.txt
```

Remember, the file `new_users.txt` should contain one line per user, with each field separated by a colon (:). Here's an example of the format: 

```
username:passwd:UserId:GroupId:User_Info:HomeDirectory:Shell
```
Each element in the file is interpreted as follows:

- **Username**: The new user's name.
- **passwd**: The initial password.
- **UserId & GroupId**: These are numeric IDs (optional). If left blank, system defaults are used.
- **User_Info**: This contains extra info about the user (optional).
- **HomeDirectory**: The location for this user's home directory (optional).
- **Shell**: The default shell for the user (optional).

With these tools up your sleeve, you're well on your way to managing users in a Linux environment. Practice using these commands - with proficiency comes efficiency. Remain diligent, and remember that each step taken is an upward move along your journey in mastery of Linux. 💪