### 02.8 FreeBSD Init and Startup Scripts 📜

Sometimes, to truly understand a matter, it is necessary to venture beyond our regular realms —outside the border of the Linux world— into the landscapes of other *nix systems. And today, we embark on that exploration, docking for a moment at the harbor of FreeBSD.

FreeBSD, like Linux, is a powerful and flexible operating system. However, it deals with system initialization and managing services slightly differently. It harnesses scripts —located within `/etc/rc.d/`— for both initialization and the management of its daemons. 

Let's get started and gain some insight into FreeBSD's unique initialization dance, making you a more diversified and knowledgeable Linux professional. 

#### The `/etc/rc` Script 👆

The `/etc/rc` script is the fulcrum of FreeBSD's startup process. Upon system boot, the kernel invokes the `/etc/rc` script, which sequentially completes the following tasks:

- Sets up vital file systems
- Brings up essential system services
- Initializes network interfaces
- Executes daemons or services as laid out in the system's configuration files.

To understand the flow of the script, you can take a peek at the `/etc/rc` file itself. However, make sure not to modify this file accidentally.

#### `/etc/rc.d/` Directory and its Scripts 📂

Once the primary responsibilities of `/etc/rc` are out of the way, it delegates the boot process to the scripts inside the `/etc/rc.d/` directory. 

Each of these scripts corresponds to a system service or a daemon. They are executed in an alphanumeric order, with the sequence dictated by their filenames.

For instance, the `netif` script is responsible for setting up network interfaces, and `routing` handles network routing configuration.

You can control these services manually by running these scripts with appropriate arguments like `start`, `stop`, `status`, etc. For example:

```
sudo /etc/rc.d/sshd start
```

This will start the Secure Shell daemon (sshd). 

#### Configuration with `rc.conf` and `rc.conf.local` 🔧

All the default system configuration required by these scripts resides in a file named `/etc/defaults/rc.conf`. 

You can override these settings with the `/etc/rc.conf` or `/etc/rc.conf.local` files. Here, you can specify which daemons to boot at startup, set network interface IP addresses, and so on.

For example, to enable `sshd` at startup, the `rc.conf` file should include:

```
sshd_enable="YES"
```
The beauty of FreeBSD's system lies in its simplicity and straightforwardness. Despite being different from Linux, the principles remain similar, and understanding this can make you a more adaptable professional in the *nix world.

So, that's all you need to know about FreeBSD's init and startup scripts! Now, with this knowledge, you're one step closer to mastering the intricacies of *nix systems!