### 21.3 Server-Side NFS 🎶

The server, in NFS terminology, is the machine that shares its resources (files or directories). Let's say you manage a Linux machine that holds a large collection of music that you want to share with other machines in your network. Here, your machine would be the _NFS server._ 

#### Setting up the NFS Server

To set your server up and running, we're going to do a symphony in three movements: installing the necessary package, setting up the file system to be exported, and finally configurable the Network File System itself.

1. **Installing the NFS Kernel Server**: NFS requires specific packages to run. It uses the "**nfs-kernel-server**" package on most Linux distributions like Ubuntu, Fedora, and CentOS. To install, open your terminal and run:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nfs-kernel-server
```

Keywords here are `sudo` for superuser privileges, `apt update` to refresh your package lists, and `apt install` to install the necessary package. 

2. **Set Up the File System to be Exported**: Next, we need to decide what resources we will be sharing. Let's suppose it's under `/var/nfsshare`. To make it accessible to NFS, make the directory and adjust the permissions with:

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /var/nfsshare
sudo chown nobody:nogroup /var/nfsshare
sudo chmod 777 /var/nfsshare
```

Here, `mkdir` creates the directory, `chown` changes the owner and group to nobody and nogroup – the default NFS user and `chmod` sets the permissions.

3. **Configure NFS Exports**: Now, it's time to conduct the real magic - instruct the NFS server to share `/var/nfsshare` with other systems. Open the exports file using `sudo nano /etc/exports` and add the following line:

```bash
/var/nfsshare *(rw,sync,no_root_squash,no_all_squash)
```

Here, `*` means you're allowing all machines, `(rw,sync,no_root_squash,no_all_squash)` are a list of permissions.

4. **Use the exportfs Command**: After saving and closing the `/etc/exports` file, run the `exportfs` command to make the server aware of the updated export list:

```bash
sudo exportfs -a
```

And just like that, you've set up your server-side NFS! 🚀

#### Adding a Touch of Security 🔒

By default, NFS is unencrypted, leaving it open to the ever-lurking threats of data eavesdropping. But fear not, for our hero **Kerberos** steps in. With its cryptographic ticket system, Kerberos provides the safety net your data deserves. We won't be diving into Kerberos configuration details now, but be sure to refer to the "Recommended Reading" section (21.9) for great resources to help set this up.

Congratulations! You've learned to wield the power of Server-Side NFS. Now you can share resources across your network. Don't stop here, though. The Linux universe still holds much awaiting for your discovery!