**20.10 Traditional Filesystems: UFS, EXT4, and XFS**

Allow me to introduce you to three of the traditional and widely-used Linux filesystems: Unix File System (UFS), Fourth Extended File System (EXT4), and XFS. 🗂️

**20.10.1 - Unix File System (UFS) 📄**

UFS, short for Unix File System, is a filesystem used by Unix and Unix-like operating systems. It is a predecessor to many of the filesystems we're going to discuss in this chapter and it underpins much of the theory behind Linux storage. Though not commonly used today, understanding its philosophy and structure provide valuable insights into modern filesystems. 

When using UFS, each disk drive is divided into one or more partitions, each containing a standalone UFS file system. Disks are traditionally divided up into several different partitions to separate and isolate parts of the filesystem for security and performance reasons. 

```bash
#Sample command to format a disk partition with UFS:
sudo mkfs.ufs /dev/sdXY
```

`/dev/sdXY` denotes the device file for the partition you want to format.

**20.10.2 - Fourth Extended File System (EXT4) 📗**

EXT4 is the default filesystem for many Linux distributions including Debian and Ubuntu. Built upon the foundations laid by its predecessor (EXT2, EXT3), EXT4 introduces numerous improvements including increased storage limits, improved performance, and additional features.

To create an EXT4 filesystem, you'll use the `mkfs.ext4` command:

```bash
#Command to format a disk partition with EXT4:
sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sdXY
```

Replace `/dev/sdXY` with the path to the partition you intend to format. You now have EXT4 filesystem ready to roll!

**20.10.3 - XFS 📘**

XFS was created by Silicon Graphics in 1993 for use in their high-performance computing platforms that needed to manage large amounts of data efficiently. Today, it's recognized for its scalability, speed, and data integrity features. 

To format a partition with XFS, you use the `mkfs.xfs` command:

```bash
#Command to format a disk partition with XFS:
sudo mkfs.xfs /dev/sdXY
```

Replace `/dev/sdXY` with the partition you need to format and your XFS filesystem is set!

Those were the traditional filesystems! Each has its merits and peculiarities, and your choice among them depends on your specific requirements. Cool, isn't it? 😎 Up next, we are going to embark on a journey to uncover next-gen filesystems like ZFS and Btrfs and see how they are shaking things up in the Linux world!